Scope Storage in android

Before android 10 came into existance, we used shared storage for each apps specific data.
Internal memory is used to store app specific data.

Shared storage: Every application with storage permission can access this.
As any app can access this, we've two problems:
1. Why provide with full access to applications that require very small oart of the storage?
2. Application has wide writing capability on the storage, files generated by the app gets scattered and when app is uninstalled then the files get scattered.

We need a solid solution to overcome these issues!

Scoped storage helps us overcome these issues.
Scoped storage 'compartmentalize' storage into specific collections to limit the access to broad storage.

Principles of Scoped storage:
1. Better attribution: System knows which file is generated by which app.
2. App data protection: Data in external storage cannot be easily accessed by other apps

Key features:
1. Unrestricted access: Every app has unrestricted access to it's own internal as well as external storage.
2. Unrestricted media: To contribute files to the media and downloads of your own app. There is no necessity to take permission if you want to save things in media collection.
Only need permission to read from or write to other app's external storage.
3. Organised collection.
$.
Media location metadata: Media location can be accessed if permission is granted.

Download collection
Can be used for non-media files like PDF's and Docs.
These don't require any permission for editing or reading non-media files in the Download Collection for your appplication.
